`Overview`
`Attendance management` System is a software developed for daily student attendance in schools, colleges and institutes. It is maintained on the daily basis of their attendance.It facilitates to access the attendance information of a particular student in a particular class. Each staff will be given with a separate username and password based on the subject they handle. An accurate report based on the student attendance is generated here. Authorised person can generate code which is valid only for 25 seconds and students are required to enter the same code to mark their attendance.
`Goal`
The purpose of developing attendance management system is to computerized the tradition way of taking attendance. Another purpose for developing this software is to generate the report automatically at the end of the session or in the between of the session and to avoid proxies.

This project consist of two android applications- `Attendance Manager For Faculty` and `Mark My Attendance` which uses `Google Firebase`.

The `Attendance Manager For Faculty` application will be provided to faculties.Faculties has to login in application with their respective email and password.
After login, the faculty can generate a code for a particular subject and firstly the faculty is required to cast the screen to projector so that the students can enter the code in their app.
Faculty can see attendance of each student by Show Attendance option and can sign out. Show Attendance leads to screen consist of all students with their roll number.Then selecting particular student gives the list of subjects.Then after selecting subject, detailed information of that student i.e. dates on which he/she is present and total attendance of student in that subject, will be accessed.

The `Mark My Attendance` application will be given to students.Students have to create an account.
Account creation requires email given by institute and password by student.
After successful login, new screen comes consist of Select Subject button. When faculty generates subject code then student have to click that button to view the subject.
 Then student click on subject name, new screen comes contain space for writing the subject code generated by faculty.Then student write the subject code in space and he/she have to submit the code in given time limit for getting attendance.

`The code is valid only for 25 seconds. And the copy paste options are also disabled to avoid the proxies.`

`Code example: aRg45vRx3D `

